and so we're about to do QA so this is a
weird question but let me just think
about okay so let's do some questions
about meditation because we just
meditated I always thought meditation
was some kind of [ __ ] where people
say they reach some whole new level of
holiness and all of that can you put it
in a simple way why should regular
people meditate once in a while yeah
absolutely
so if you guys want the simplest reason
to meditate the goal of meditation is to
actually be conscious without the
function of the mind so to be conscious
without thinking so understand that your
mind is the thing that thinks the mind
is the thinking machine and this may
need more questions I mean you guys may
have to ask more questions I'm happy to
explain more but the simplest reason to
meditate is because you need to spend
time outside of your mind so understand
that anxiety sadness depression all of
those happen within the mind right those
are products of the mind and so
meditation gives you a state of being
that is completely outside of mind so
all of the stuff that comes out of mind
cannot exist when you're in that state
of meditation hopes dreams love
attachment expectations desires sadness
anxiety all of that [ __ ] gets wiped away
when you meditate that's why you should
meditate because your brain deserves a
break from you
that's why you should meditate right
that's the simplest reason about the
simplest reason that's it so let's talk
about that for a second we think we are
our minds and if we think we are we our
sense of identity has to do with our
mind so I identify certain things like
I'm a doctor I'm a Boomer apparently I'm
a gamer I'm a father I'm a psychiatrist
I'm a slacker I'm a legend to scrub on
dota these are the ways that identify
with myself right and each of those
things comes like brings attachments
with it and those attachments can lead
to like comment some kind of suffering
so to meditate is to be like neutral is
to find like a part of like the truest
version of yourself because each of
those statements about myself are can
like change over time like those are not
the real me like one day I may not be a
legend to scrub I may be like an ancient
one scrub I used to be ancient by the
way before I you know had kids and stuff
for K MMR back in the day like 5 years
ago back when I used to play dota and
one day I may not be a physician one day
I may not be a father one day I may not
be a Boomer right I may learn how to use
the internet one day and so all of these
parts of our identity are fluctuating
like they change like I feel like I'm
successful I feel like I'm a failure
like maybe one day I get banned from
twitch and then I'm like I'm not a
twitch streamer anymore so all of that
when we think about ourselves we think
about a lot of things that we believe
are permanent but aren't actually
permanent they're temporary so how do
you find out what you really are how do
you find the thing that is completely
stable and is the real you because all
the others all the other [ __ ] can change
sense of identity like even things that
we used to think we're super stable like
a sense of gender identity is fluid
right people like grow up thinking that
they're a man and then one day they wake
up and they're like I'm a woman trapped
in a man's body fine so identity
fluctuates so how do you find the real
you you meditate because all of that
stuff exists within the mind and when
you meditate all of that stuff goes away
and you see the fundamental experience
of who you are
and that changes you so I'll tell you
guys something like so this was kind of
my journey to understanding this as I
learned how to meditate and then um my
father passed away and I remember being
like really really sad this was about
eight years ago so I was like filled
with grief and stuff cuz he's my dad and
he was super proud like he won he was a
doctor and he wanted me to go to medical
school and then I got into medical
school and like the day that I called
him and I told him I got in and he like
wept he was just so happy for me
and then about eight months later he
passed away so when I was a first year
medical student so I remember like
flying back to Texas from Boston and I
watched his so I went to the funeral and
so then there's his corpse right and I
saw his corpse and I broke down crying
and then like while I was crying I was
like let me try to meditate real quick
and sometimes when I meditated I I had
this sense of like vast emptiness within
me it was kind of comforting but it was
just like this vast like ocean of just
like nothingness it's hard to describe
the way I would describe is I felt like
I was a star in the sky which doesn't
make any sense unless you've experienced
it it's like trying to explain an orgasm
to someone who hasn't had sex they're
just never gonna get it right so I had
this experience and then I I was I was
like okay right now like this is like
I'm filled with grief can I still find
that thing so I meditated and then sure
enough like that part that I felt that
was meditating was exactly the same it
was like exactly the same and I felt
like completely peaceful and on top of
the peace I felt like this overwhelming
grief it's a really bizarre thing to
describe and then one month later I got
married I mean the wedding was planned
it wasn't like you know I was like so
like grief distraught that I proposed or
got someone pregnant so I was gonna get
married
it's like planned and then it was sort
of a you know people were like it was
kind of bittersweet because obviously my
dad had just passed away and then I like
presumably I was super happy like I was
getting married I was having a lot of
fun and then when I was like supposedly
what like one of the happiest moments of
my life I stopped and I meditated and I
found that same sensation
that there is a part of me that is
constant and that that is the real me
and that everything else above all of
the experiences of life sadness
happiness success failure devastation
joy underneath all of that is something
that is constant that's why you should
meditate so you can find that thing
because most people go through life
without any kind of constant everything
about their life is subject to change so
when people talk about [ __ ] like the
true self they say like meditate to like
find your inner self man find that true
self all manly
yeah like Lululemon pants and Oprah
Winfrey like find yourself yeah like
yoga studios yeah like they're no that's
[ __ ] stupid there is a part of you
like oh that's true but they don't
understand what the [ __ ] they're talking
about there's a part of you that is
literally unchanging and once you
discover that part of you life becomes
way easier
so I remember a couple years later I was
in the operating room and there was this
vascular surgeon I was doing a vascular
surgery for a carotid endarterectomy
which is you have this thing called the
carotid artery and the carotid artery
gets blocked too with like [ __ ] and then
people have strokes because it's blocked
and that's the main artery that feeds
you know the front side of your brain
and so what you do is you go in with
surgery and you pull the gunk out so not
[ __ ] yeah I mean it gets filled with
like cholesterol and stuff like the same
stuff that hardens the arteries of your
heart and gets inflamed and things like
that so so I was in this surgery right
and surgeons are not the nicest people
and so this guy is doing the surgery and
then he like cut something that he's not
supposed to cut and the [ __ ] starts
bleeding and like the field of vision
for a neck surgery is like tiny it's
like you've got this little patch of
like maybe you know one and a half inch
by one and a half inch of like the neck
that's open it's very small so it
doesn't take a whole lot of blood to
like fill it up and he doesn't see what
the he doesn't see where the
LEED is coming from so he's on one side
of the table I'm on the other side of
the table and then he's like looking for
the blood like he's looking for like
what he caught in what's bleeding and he
can't find it and so he's kind of an
[ __ ] so I tend to stay quiet but I
say like hey this guy's been a [ __ ]
stroke out and so I make the mistake of
opening my mouth because he can't see it
because he's on this side of the table
and it's like spurting out like down
here like over here so I'm on the other
side of the table I can see exactly
where the blood is coming from and so I
make the mistake of opening my [ __ ]
mouth and I say dr. so-and-so I think
the bleed is on this side and what do
you guys think his responses medical
student when I want your [ __ ] opinion
I will ask for it right
so most medical students in this
situation would be devastated but I
laugh inside myself and I was like fine
like you're a [ __ ] [ __ ] I can see
the bleed if you don't find it this
guy's gonna like be brain damaged
you're a dick and like most people are
devastated because it's a high-stakes
kind of thing and he's like yelling at
you I may have even said something snide
because other people in the room started
laughing I don't remember but and and so
like when you find that thing underneath
you like normally getting yelled at by a
surgeon in the o.r there's so many of my
colleagues that would like start crying
and like because like you get deficit
they like these [ __ ] [ __ ] people
they yell at you and then you feel like
a piece of [ __ ] because they're all high
and mighty and you're like a lowly
person like getting yelled at by someone
is like not nice it's a stressful
situation the emotions are running high
but if you find that core of yourself
that is not like sad or happy or
anything like it gives you so much
strength you just go to that thing you
go to that thing and you find it
and there are times where you know like
like I don't know if it's so sometimes I
have a cup of tea in the morning and
like when I drink my tea like for a few
moments I'm like nothing I'm just like
one with the tea and you're drinking
that team it's [ __ ] delicious
you have no hopes you have no fears you
have no anxieties you're just like one
with no he ended up finding the bleed
and the guy was okay
he found the bleed because I told him
where it was I was like it's over here
and then he like mopped it up and then
found it and sewed it right and you have
that being fine I ended up getting a
good grade in the rotation too by the
way I ended up getting honors so they
actually tried to convince me to be a
vascular surgeon and I thought about it
for a hot second they said I was too I
was too smart to become a psychiatrist
that's what they told me at the end of
the rotation like you'd be [ __ ]
wasted in psychiatry you should become a
real doctor I was like thank you
so I'm seriously that that was their
feedback honest to god so you know I
think fine like so the reason you should
meditate us to find that thing within
yourself right to find the part of you
that's constant and doesn't fluctuate
and once you discover that thing and you
have access to that thing you can kind
of like you're kind of like floating
above the rest of your life it's like
you know I don't know how else to
describe it so that's why you should
meditate and I think what happens when
you find that thing is you become like
holier so we have this concept of
holiness which is like I don't know
exactly what that means but I think
generally like things like compassion
become more easy like patience becomes
easier compassion becomes easier dealing
with sadness becomes easier dealing with
happiness becomes easier you become like
more like level which is I think part of
what they mean by holy so I'm gonna
relate this to another question how do
you gain confidence as a clinician
that's another question that I got and I
gained confidence because I find this
thing like and so sometimes I do a bad
job as a clinician and sometimes I do a
good job as a clinician because
not a perfect clinician right just like
we were talking about I try to do the
best job that I can every day and I come
on stream and I just try to do the best
job that I can which is sometimes it's
like if I stop and think about coming on
stream it's [ __ ] terrifying just
think about this for a second when you
guys show up on stream like what are you
looking for
you're looking for salvation that's why
you guys come right and just think about
this for a second like what the [ __ ]
isn't like for me to come on and be like
oh [ __ ] Friday at 3 p.m. time to give
out some dad salvation time to transform
people's lives like I can't do that [ __ ]
come on right like I can't like you
can't expect that of me and I can't
expect it it myself but somewhere along
the way I start to think like oh my god
like I better save someone's lot like I
got a I got to help these people today
and then then it's like oh [ __ ] if I
start thinking that then it's gonna be
hard so then I just like I meditate and
then I recalibrate and then I focus on
the person sitting across from me and I
crossed my fingers and I pray to God
that it's going to help you that's
that's the only way to do it
right so meditation is about like
forgetting all that stuff it's not about
saving the world like it's like sureiy
oe healing is cool and all that's what
I'm trying to do but I can't expect that
I'm gonna transform the world with my
streams like it's not an expectation I'm
just gonna show up and try to help in
the way that I can and like if people
get transformed great if they don't
that's okay too
and it's like no big no big deal no big
deal
NBD okay so that's why you should
meditate I hope that's good enough of an
answer and simple enough of an answer
and the reason that you become holier
and compassion is cuz you get out of
your [ __ ] head so it's like you know
I didn't like you can be in more decent
human being because you're less caught
up in your own [ __ ] and like being a
decent human being people start calling
you like holy or and a saint like that's
just because it's hard because you're
normally caught up in your own stuff
okay